docs: initial start of the maintainership docs under the bounty program (#1894)
asyncapi/community: docs/maintainership-guide/overview/community-values.md

---
title: AsyncAPI Maintainership Program Community Values
description: This overview page outlines the AsyncAPI Maintainership Program Community Values
weight: 40
---

> At AsyncAPI, we believe that growing and sustaining open source depends on empowering contributors, not just through code, but through connection, mentorship, and responsibility. The AsyncAPI Maintainership Program (AMP) is our structured pathway to help contributors become skilled maintainers who can help steward AsyncAPI’s mission and projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At AsyncAPI, we believe that growing and sustaining open source depends on empowering contributors, not just through code, but through connection, mentorship, and responsibility. The AsyncAPI Maintainership Program (AMP) is our structured pathway to help contributors develop the skills necessary to become skilled maintainers who can help steward AsyncAPI’s mission and projects.
```

## AMP Sets a Standard of Excellence for Contributors

- Maintains a **confirmed program schedule** with dates contributors can rely on.
- Provides a dedicated **Slack channel and GitHub Discussion thread** for real-time questions and program updates.
- Ensures each project has **at least one lead mentor** responsible for guiding contributors and ensuring project success.
- Communicates any **program changes clearly and promptly**.
- Has **at least one lead organizer** always accessible to support contributors and address concerns.

## AMP Is Accessible and Flexible

- Open to contributors from **all backgrounds, time zones, and experience levels**.
- Features a transparent and easy-to-follow **application process**.
- Completely **free to join**, with no entry barriers.
- Respects contributors' **personal commitments and schedules**.
- Promotes **low-pressure learning**, with flexible timelines and goals.
- Sets **clear expectations** at the start of each cohort to help participants stay focused.

> ## AMP Is Fair

Reviewer: Add that previous accepted mentees are not eligible

- **Organizers do not participate** in any cohort as contributors.
- **Current AsyncAPI maintainers** are ineligible to participate as mentees.
- Contributors who are actively participating in **other programs (e.g., GSoC)** during the cohort are **not eligible**.

# AMP Builds a Safe and Inclusive Culture

- Adopts and upholds the **AsyncAPI Code of Conduct**.
- Holds both mentors and mentees **accountable for respectful, constructive interactions**.
- Provides **safe spaces** for discussing mental health, burnout, and personal development.
- Encourages **self-care and setting boundaries**.
- Celebrates **all forms of contribution** including code, documentation, design, community, and more.
- Enforces a zero-tolerance policy for **Code of Conduct violations or misconduct**.

> **Creating an empowering open source environment where contributors of all experience levels can grow into maintainers is the heart of the AsyncAPI Maintainership Program.** These principles reflect the experience we strive to create within the program, and the contributor culture we are building across the AsyncAPI ecosystem: one which is rooted in continuous learning, inclusivity, and long-term sustainability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Creating an empowering open source environment where contributors of all experience levels can grow into maintainers is at the heart of the AsyncAPI Maintainership Program. These principles reflect the experience we strive to create within the program and the contributor culture we are building across the AsyncAPI ecosystem: one that is rooted in continuous learning, inclusivity, and long-term sustainability.
```
